Computers talk and identify with one another over a network through ip addresses.
A domain name is used to translate these ip addresses into names for humans to remember.
A domain name is a way to bridge the communication gap between computers and humans.

Domain names are registered and can be used for a website and/or an email account.
Domain names are what users tpye into their browsers to find your website.
They're referred to as web addresses.

Examples:
www.codecademy.com
www.google.com
www.iodash.com
www.github.com

Not a Domain Name:
Email
Website

Note: You can't have an email or a website without a domain name

DNS is used to translate the ip addresses into two numbers.
We start by typing a domain name into the web browser and the computer first checks its cache memory to see if it can pull the website.
If it can't do it, it goes into the resolver or internet service provider. If they can't find it here, it goes to the root server.
When looking at the hierarchy of domain name search, the root server is the top of it.
There are 13 root servers strategically placed throughout the world and they're opreated by different organizations.
Each set has their own unique IP addresses.

The root servers receives our query for the ip address that we're looking for.
Although the root server doesn't know the domain, it knows where to send to the resolver to find it.
It goes back to the resolver and then it sends it to the TLD Server or Top Level Domain server.
This server stores the address information for top-level domains.
From the TLD Server, it goes back to the Resolver Server where it then goes to the Name Server.
The Name Server is resposnible for knowing everything about the domain, including the IP address.
The Name Server is the final authority that will send back to the computer with the site and the computer will store this information in the cache memory so that it won't have to go through all of that step again.

Domain Name Examples:
.com
.org
.edu
.net
.biz
.info
.gov
etc..

Country Codes:
.de (germany)
.cn (china)
.fr (france)

When choosing a domain name, it's best to keep it short and easy to remember.

Domain Name Versus Web Hosting;
We begin when we're building a website by getting a domain name.
We then have to get hosting for our site.
Hosting is the storage of our site and where we post the content of our website.
A web host or hosting is the service provider that has the technologies needed for a website to be viewed on the internet.
Our websites are stored on special computers called servers.

Our domain names point to our website that is hosted on a server.