Introduction to Bug:
In C++, there are many different ways of classifying errors, but they can be boiled down to four categories:
Compile-time errors: Errors found by the compiler
Link-time errors: Errors found by the linker when it is trying to combine object files into an executable program.
Run-time errors: Errors found by checks in a running program.
Logic-errors: Errors found by the programmer looking for the causes of erroneous results.

Compile-time Errors:
The compiler is our first line of defense against errors.
There are two types of compile-time errors:
Syntax-errors - errors that occur when we violate the rules of C++ syntax.
Type errors - errors that occur when there are mismatch between the types we declared.

Common syntax errors:
Missing semicolon 
Missing closing parenthesis, square bracket, or curly brace.

Common type errors:
Forgetting to declare a variable
Storing a value into the wrong type

The compiler will tell us where (line nubmer) it got into trouble and its best guess as to what is wrong.

Link-time Errors:
Sometimes, the code compiles fine, but there's a message because the program needs some function or library that it can't find.
This is known as a link-time error.

As our program gets bigger, it's good practice to divide the program into separate files.
After compiling them, the linker takes those separate object files and combines them into a single executable file.
Link-time errors are found by the linker when it is trying to combine object files into an executable file.

Common link-time errors:
Using a function that was never defined
Writing Main() instead of main()

Run-time Errors:
If our program has no compile-time and link-time errors, it'll run.
Errors which happen during program execution (run-time) after successful compilation are called run-time errors.
Run-time errors occur when a program with no compile-time errors and link-time errors asks the computer to do something that the copmuter is uanble to do.

Common run-time errors:
Division by zero also known as division error.
Trying to open a file that doesn't exist.

Logic Errors:
Once we have removed the compile-time errors, link-time errors, and run-time errors, the program runs successfully, but sometimes, the program doesn't do what we want it to do or no output is produced.
These types of errors which provide incorrect output but appear to be error-free are called logical errors.

Logical errors solely depend on the logical thinking of the programmer.

Common logic-errors:
Program logic is flawed
silly mistake in an if statement or a for/while loop

Note:Logic errors don't have error messages

Review:
Compile-time errors: errors found by the copmiler.
Link-time errors: errors found by the linker when it is trying to combine object files into an executable program.
Run-time errors: errors found by checks in a running program.
Logic errors: errors found by the programming looking for the causes of erroneous results.

