Introduction to Color:
CSS supports a wide variety of colors.
These include named colors, like blue, black, and limegreen, along with colors described by a numeric value.
Using a numeric system allows us to take advantage of the whole spectrum of colors that browsers support.

Colors in CSS can be described in three different ways:
Named colors - english words that describe colors, also called keyword colors
RGB - numeric values that describe a mix of red, green, and blue
HSL - numeric values that describe a mix of hue, saturation, and lightness

Foregrund vs Backgrund:
It's important to make two distinctions about color.
Color can affect the following design aspects:
The foregrund color
The background color

Foregrund color is the color that an element appears in.
For example, when a heading is styled to appear green, the foreground color of the heading has been styled.

COnversely, when a heading is styled so that its background appears yellow, the background color of the heading has been styled.

In CSS, these two design aspects can be styled with the following two properties:
color - this property styles an element's foreground color
background-color - this property styles an element's background color
Example:
h1 {
	color: red;
	background-color: blue;
}

Hexadecimal:
One syntax that we use to specify colors is called hexadecimal.
Colors specified using this system are called hex colors.
A hex color begins with a hash character (#) which is followed by three or six characters.
The characters represent values for red, blue, green.
Example:
darkseagreen: #8FBC8F
sienna: #A0522D
saddlebrown: #8B4513
brown: #A52A2A
black:	#000000 or #000
white: #FFFFFF or #FFF
aqua #00FFFF or #0FF

The hexadecimal number system has 16 digits (0-15) and thus has letters and numbers.
To represent 10-15, we use A-F.

Notice how black, white, and aqua, are all represented with both three characters and si characters.
This can be done with hex colors whose number pairs are the same characters.
In the example above, aqua can be represented as #0FF because both of the first two characters are 00 and the second and third pairs of characters are both Fs.
Keep in mind that all three character hex colors can be represented with six characters (by repeating each character twice) but the same is not true in reverse.

We can include hex colors just as we would include named colors:
background-color: #9932CC;

The letters can be uppercase or lowercase.

RGB Colors:
There is another syntax for representing RGB values, commonly referred to as "RGB value" or just RGB, that uses decimal numbers rather than hexadecimal numbers, and it looks like this:
Example:
h1 {
	color: rgb(23, 45, 23);
}

Each of the three values represent a color component, and each can have a decimal number value from 0 to 255.
The first number represents the amount of red, the second is green, and the third is blue.
These colors are exactly the same as hex, but with a different syntax and a different number system.

In general, hex and RGB color representations are equivalent.
Which we choose is a matter of personal taste.
That said, it's good to choose one and be consistent throughout our CSS, because it's easier to compare hex to hex and RGB to RGB.

Hex and RGB:
The hexadecimal and RGB color system can represent many more colors than the small set of CSS named colors.
We can use this new set of colors to refine our web page's style.

In both hex and RGB, we have three values, one for each color.
Each can be one of 256 values.
Specifically, 256 * 256 * 256 = 16,777,216.
This is the amount of colors that we can now represent, compared to roughly 140 named CSS colors.

Hue, Saturation, and Lightness